Okay, you were mentioning an example. As an
example.
Hold on just a minute.
Lead us away. From the Soviets? Is that what you
were saying? British attempts? Yeah, lead us away
from the Soviets. Okay, and that's the Fulton
County, that was an example. Yeah, no, this is an
example that I intended to mention.
Notwithstanding the black book, the sign with
Churchill, Stalin, and Roosevelt, at Yalta,
provided that immediately after the Germans
capitulated, a reparations commission would
meet in Moscow with a delegation from Britain, the
United States, and one from
Russia would convene and deal on the subject of
German reparations.
Mr. Truman's thought policy was, after
Roosevelt's passage, that he would count all of
Roosevelt's commitments.
And our job was to count one of them, namely to join
the assembly of this commission at Moscow
immediately after the Germans capitulated.
Well, we hurriedly formed our mission to that end.
And we stopped in London. Two plane loads of us
stopped in London on our way over. And we had a visit
with the British. And they asked us, why are you in a
hurry? And they just attempted to dissuade us from
the immediate German movement to Moscow.
of course we responded that we had no choice, that
this commitment had been made by our previous
administration, Mr. Truman, and said they wanted
us carried out. And we left them with no assurance
whatsoever that they were going to meet us in
Moscow.
And it was surprising to me that in the first place
They even tried to dissuade us from going ahead.
But when we got to Moscow, we took time enough to go
over the ruins of Germany. We spent a few days at
Frankfurt. And we divided ourselves up into
groups of three to an automobile. We covered
practically all
the ruins of Germany as far east as Leipzig.
And we went on to Moscow. We got to Moscow. The
Russians did appear. The British did appear.
So I would say there's something to that thinking.
I'm sure Dr. Anderson will appreciate that.
Briefly, how was it working with the British in
this time period? I know you've answered some of
that in what you've discussed. Can you briefly sum
up how it was to work with the British and how it was
to work with the Soviets. No relationship between
the two, but straight-line British,
straight-line Soviets. How was it to work with
them in this time period?
Well, it was both presented difficulty, but the
difficulty
with the Russians arose largely from the
standpoint or the fact
that
they had little delegated authority.
And
they were deathly afraid of the British. The
Russians were deathly afraid of the British.
because the British, they said, had invaded them
twice in this century. And from a standpoint of the
British, the difficulty arose from a different
source.
That was
all Foreign Service,
procedures and activities of the British
and has historically
moved with a great deal of sophistication and a
well-informed
group of servicemen. They knew exactly what they
wanted to do. and well organized, smoothly
organized. They had a disposition of not wanting
to give the Germans any reparations whatsoever.
And
that was very influential on, I'd say, a majority
of our group.
Does that answer your question? That answers the
Great Britain. With the Soviets, you said there
were problems with them. Getting back to the
Soviet side, they expressed
a great admiration for the Americans because the
Americans fought seceded
from Great Britain and fought the War of
Independence and won it and had done very well. And
they likened themselves to the Americans because
they too fought a very difficult breach from the
Tsars and had had a in holding things together.
But the chief trouble in dealing with the Russians
always clearly stemmed from the fact that they had
to go back to headquarters for the answer to every
question. It took time.
required a lot of patience.
They were very courteous to us in the summer of
1945.
There is, I'd say more so before the bombing came
into existence.
But I've always thought that the Cold War started
at Muscat, at Ushtown. With Truman's statement
about the bombing of T. Scotland. Yeah.
On
a more personal note, after the war, up to now. It's
been said that you have been an advocate of liberal
politics in the state of Texas for some time, and up
to today's Texas Democratic politics. Could you
discuss your involvement with the evolution of
liberal politics in this state? And you might
include Any involvement with LBJ?
Well,
I'll say that I've always
figured that
this democracy of ours could not go forward
without the exercise of a good deal of liberalism.
On the other hand, I've
always exercised the independence
of an action
that is conservative.
I believe in a balanced budget. I don't think you
can run any kind of an institution successfully
without a balanced budget and I'm not a liberal to
the point of way
you give away everything
you've got to do things with reason And I've always
been a Democrat. My first vote as a Democrat was for
Woodrow Wilson when I was at the University of
Texas Law School.
And I think I voted for every Democratic president
since. That includes Carlin. That includes
Carlin both times.
And
I'll do the same thing this year, regardless of who
it is.
But I got out of my early study of government the
definite feeling that you couldn't have a
continuation of a democracy if we had a free
society. without the exercise of a good deal of
liberalism.
I think the word, what I wanted to live with was
everything is white and overplayed. I remember
my wife told me one time that she had just read in the
Chicago Tribune a story about
a great liberal
It seems that some prominent Republican had
written the chairman of the National Republican
Committee and told him that he wanted to give some
money to the Republican Party,
but he was disturbed because there wasn't a single
liberal ever heard of in the ranks of the
Republicans. And the chairman of the Republican
committee promptly wrote the man back and told him
that as an example of a liberal, he wanted to cite J.
Howard Pugh as just having given the committee
$50,000. And
I think that is illustrating some people's views
of what makes a conservative and what makes a
liberal. the digits of life um now it's the lyndon
johnson
i met lyndon johnson early in the office of
governor james v already he invited me to his
office to meet lyndon he just announced for
congress from the austin district where
buckhannon the incumbent congressman had died.
And I asked London what his platform was and
he said in the first place he was going to help
Roosevelt pack the court. Well, I had been through
the School of Government at the University of
Texas and the law school and I was pretty well
steeped in the in the propriety of the checks and
powers in government. And I scolded him. I said he
shouldn't do that because it's wrong for one
department of the Constitutional Department of
the government to try to hobble another
department. He went on and advocated the packet in
the court and got elected. And later on I supported
him when he ran for the Senate and I supported him
when he announced for and did run for President of
the United States.
I was at Los Angeles and when he
was requested by John F. Kennedy after he was
nominated to join him on the ticket. And Johnson
had the difficult decision to make as to whether he
would or wouldn't.
And everybody I knew in Texas and Los Angeles
preferred that Lyndon stay in the Senate. He was
majority leader.
But I know Mr. Raymond expressed that feeling.
Later in the day, Mr. Raymond told me that John F.
Kennedy had come to see him and told him that he
needed Lyndon to win the election. Needed him on
the team. Needed to help him carry the South.
And appealed to Mr. Raymond. that it was a matter of
duty because 25 other Democratic senators had
joined him in the request of London to join the
ticket, and that as many congressmen had done the
same thing.
Mr. Raven
told me that he finally said to John, well, John,
since you put it that way, And if you'll get on that
TV and tell the world that this is your idea, you are
drafting Lyndon to go on the ticket with you, I'd
recommend you do it. And John did make the
statement, Mr. Raymond required that Lyndon join
the ticket. And I thought Lyndon did the right
thing. because he owed it to the Democratic Party
and he owed it to the nominee in that respect.
And I know that it wasn't very comforting to Bobby
when John asked him when Lennon accepted. That was
unfortunate.
But I knew Lennon well.
I was with him through
his campaigns as Senator and President, and
respected him very well. I couldn't agree with him
on his Vietnam policy.
I thought Lyndon was misled by the military.
Did I answer
your question? That's correct. Could
you briefly discuss your involvement with the JFK
administration?
It was very brief because I
was suffering at that time recovering from a
broken bone
right lower leg, right lower leg.
And
President Kennedy asked me to come up and help.
The new Secretary, appointed Secretary of the
Interior, organized his oil and gas department.
And I agreed to and did. go up to do it. And after
just six or eight weeks time I had finished that
chore and then came back home. And that was about
the consent of the service that I rented on that
occasion.
I put in more time for Mr. Truman when his Secretary
of Interior was organizing the oil and gas office
to meet the emergencies of the Korean War. I put in
six, eight months of
of organizing and establishing
the Petroleum Administration for Defense. I had
previously been there with Ickes as his director
of transportation when Harold Ickes was
administrator of the Petroleum Administration
for War. And I put about three years on it.
Right now, you are on the Board of Advisors of the
Center for Defense Information. Pardon me?
You're on the Board of Advisors of the Center for
Defense Information right now. Are you not? No,
I'm not active anymore. I've given up those
assignments. You gave up those assignments?
Yeah, I'm giving up those assignments. No
involvement with them? Pardon me? There's no
involvement with the Center for Defense
Information now? Well, I'm advising, but I'm not
an active participant. I'm not on the board of
directors. I'm not an active participant, but I do
support them. I communicate with them, but I don't
attend regular meetings. What does CDI stand for
right now? CDI stands for the Center for Defense
Information. It's run by the leading officer
there is Admiral Gene LaRock, a very able man. He's
doing a commendable job. He's supported by
retired Admiral Carroll, and he's got three or
four generals
in the organization. is doing a very effective
work in research
and giving authoritative answers to defense
questions, answers respected even by the
Pentagon, by the members of Congress. A lot of
members of Congress communicate with them and
rely upon them. And they take no part in politics
whatsoever. They are not a political
organization. It's simply a research and
fact-finding institution. I'm also a sponsor of
and a consultant with another organization in
Washington.
It's called the The
moving spirit in that is Admiral
Gaylor, Noel Gaylor.
And the chairman of that board is George
I'm the celebrated
Poland ambassador to Russia, George Kennan.
And the co-chairman is Bob McNamara.
And I work with that organization.
They do a different kind of work. It's
fact-finding, too. They get a little closer to
politics than CDI does. Two organizations
complement one
another. The style of this organization is the
Committee on East-West Accord.
And the design of that institution has been
defined and recommends some alternatives to the
president's nonpartisan Republicans and
Democrats on it. Some alternatives to suggest to
the Reagan administration. I don't know that he's
ever took a recommendation yet. Might be. I was
going
to say thank you. But. something that just popped
into my head that you might want to say on the
record. Is there anything you would like to say to
college students? What? To college students, the
younger people of today, with your views, what you
advocate, the course that you see America heading
in, what could you say to college students who
might direct that course for tomorrow? Is there
anything you can say to him? Something that you
would like to say to me now? Jeff, here are some
general thoughts. Something to think about. The
thing I would say to college students is to
fortify your education by basing it upon
a good, solid liberal arts education
and let the choice of your profession, of your
career, be decided after that base is
established.
Thank you very much. It's been a most gratifying
interview.
One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four.